---
analyst: amantonio
---

It is believed that serious side effects from vaccinations occur extremely rarely. One for one hundred thousand, or even one for a million. It's a lie. Since no one has conducted adequate vaccination studies, it is difficult to estimate the real number of side effects, but even with the most optimistic assessments, serious consequences are more frequent than in one in fifty (see part 5). Half (!) of the children in the US [have](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21570014) at least one chronic disease, and their number is constantly [growing](https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2016/04/160430100357.htm). Of course, not all diseases are associated with vaccinations, but who knows how many are related, if no one is researching it?
Personally, I guess that the consequences of vaccinations are almost everyone. It's just that most of them are implicit, but even if they are obvious, few associate them with vaccination. For example, it is known that brain damage is one of the rare, but possible consequences of vaccination. But in how many children is the brain damage not very significant, and as a result, they will lose only 10 IQ points, or will they have small problems with memory, with concentration, or with social interaction? Could it be that the fall of the [Flynn effect](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flynn_effect) (a decrease in the mean IQ) is a consequence of a sharp increase in the number of vaccinations in the last couple of decades? Nobody checked this. But this is a completely logical assumption. If you take a newborn child who has not yet fully formed a blood-brain barrier, and inject him with a vaccine containing mercury or aluminum, which are neurotoxins, and some of which are sure to get into the brain, is it not logical to expect that this or that will affect every child? And if you repeat this procedure several dozen times during the first years of life, is it not logical to assume that this will further strengthen the effect?
