---
analyst: amantonio
---

Some parents with whom I spoke are so confident in the importance of vaccinations that even knowing that some people think that vaccines are unsafe, they just do not want to understand it, but they aggressively defend their point of view without reading a single scientific article. They do not want to listen to a word that some vaccines may not be very effective, or not very safe, though this has been proven by many scientific studies. With them, you can calmly discuss any other topic, but as soon as it comes to vaccinations, they are like a different person. They do not want to listen to any arguments, and almost scream about how important it is to vaccinate children, and what a blessing it has been for humanity, that medicine has given us vaccines.
At first I could not understand it at all. How can it be that these very clever and educated people become so religious and inadequate as soon as it comes to this purely scientific topic. And then I seem to understand.
They all have already vaccinated their children, and, like most parents, they took the responsibility for this decision, and then delegated it to others. Subconsciously they understand that if it turns out that vaccinations are not completely harmless, then they endangered health, and perhaps even the lives of their children. It is difficult to realize this. It is much easier to live thinking that a child has already been born that way. With allergies, delayed development, with persistent ear infections, with any autoimmune disease, or even with a bunch of diseases. It is very difficult to live with the knowledge that you gave them this disease. Delegating authority, and disclaiming responsibility for this decision. By zealously defending vaccinations, even without knowing anything about them, these parents protect themselves from powerful cognitive dissonance.
Therefore, if you have already fully vaccinated your children, you are not going to do any new vaccinations, and your grandchildren are still far away, you should probably not be interested in this topic. Although, on the other hand, many consequences of vaccinations are cured if one realizes that they are acquired, rather than congenital.
